[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The thing is you begin to
see your personality needs
as insatiable.
That one need just gets
substituted with another
sooner or later.
Somebody says, you're
very special to me.
The next question
is, but really?
Or are you special enough to?
And it's back with this
question about feelings
of lack of self-love.
And sometimes you
may say, you know,
you're not special for me.
And if I really am
spacious in my awareness,
I see your mouth open
and these words come out
and you're telling me
about you, not about me.
I'm a beautiful human being.
If you don't like me, that's
your problem, not mine.
Unless I buy it.
You don't like me, whew.
Well, maybe next life.
I'll wait.
I mean, you sort
of play with it.
You just play with
it because you
see the intensity of the
drama and how the world turns
and how on and on it goes, the
whole stuff of personality.
You become mindful of it.
You begin to be aware
of how it all works.
You keep seeing yourselves
doing repetitive patterns.
And you can spend the
rest of your life trying
to work them out and
interpret, and understand,
and analyze, and work on them.
Or you can treat them as
thoughts or phenomena.
They are phenomena
and they're going
to go on because you
do have a personality
and you do have a body.
And there are nesting
feelings and there's
connectedness feelings.
Many of my friends if they
don't have a home and a family,
they are feeling extremely
unable to do inner work.
And for others, their
home and their family
seems a tremendous obstacle.
Like for me, it seems to
be a wonderful sadhana.
I find great peace in just
being this kind of liquidity.
Others are wandering
and they're miserable.
I think it's less
interesting what
form your life is in than
the state of your being.
And as your state of
your being gets deeper,
you can take the forms,
whichever ones arise,
and kind of work with them.
And that includes sickness,
and dying, and opportunities,
and lack of opportunities, and
being around miserable people,
or being around beautiful
people, or being frustrated,
great sadnesses.
Personality is
like the sandpaper.
It's the stuff of
the incarnation.
It's like looking
at these trees.
Each of them has its own
unique characteristic
but they're beautiful.
I appreciate them.
I appreciate the trees.
I don't have to judge them.
I appreciate them.
And I find I don't have
to judge people either.
I can just appreciate.
And even when they say, I
don't think you're special,
I really see that as
their mind speaking.
Everybody has these mind nets
of reality that they put out
and they're saying,
this is who I am.
This is who you are.
This is who I am.
This is what reality is.
And they're really strong.
And if you have two parents
that have a strong one of those,
you buy in.
It's like a tuna being netted.
You got caught in a mind net.
And what I see is
I meet each person
and it's like projective
systems coming towards you.
Each person is looking
at you and telling you
who they think you are.
And what they're seeing
is the projections
of their own relation to their
father or whatever it is.
They don't know who I am.
I don't know who I am.
How could they know?
But when you find the place in
yourself where you just are,
you are, and you are unique, and
you are part of the universe,
and you're one with God.
And it's all empty, and it's all
dream stuff, and it's all true.
And here we are, all of it.